# HISTO Project / Lab #0 part 10
## VIDEO -A-
### Create Folder Structure
- [ ] ../HISTO/
- [ ] ../HISTO/C_code/
- [ ] ../HISTO/VHDL/
- [ ] ../HISTO/Vivado/
### Web Copy (use instructor provided links, ignore these)
- [ ] 522/lab_0_10/HISTO_Hardware_Demo_C_code.zip
- [ ] 522/lab_0_10/HISTO_Hardware_Demo_VHDL.zip
- [ ] confirm Histo.c, common.h, & ZYBO_C1_PN.txt

### Confirm file contents
- [ ] data types pack
- [ ] histo vhd
- [ ] load unload bram
- [ ] top vhd
- [ ] top xcd
- [ ] design wrapper
- [ ] controller vhd
### GPIO reuse
Lots of reuse between GPIO_BRAM and HISTO.
```
$ cp -rp GPIO_BRAM ../../HISTO/Vivado/
```
Rename the copied folder to reflect HISTO...
```
mv GPIO_BRAM HISTO
```
From inside ../../HISTO/Vivado/HISTO/ rename all sub files from GPIO_BRAM* to HISTO*
```
$ rename GPIO_BRAM HISTO GPIO_BRAM.*
```
>__Note__
>Depending on OS, may have to change above to
> $ rename 's/GPIO_BRAM/HISTO/' GPIO_BRAM.*

### Run Vivado
From correct directory, HISTO, run vivado.  Can run in background with '&'
```
$ vivado&
```
### Open provided file(s)
- [ ] OPEN file (HISTO.vhd), don't create new file
>__Note__
>Depending on Vivado version may by HISTO.xpr
- [ ] explore 'sources', confirm path is to ../HISTO/ not ../GPIO_BRAM/
>__Note__
>In my implementaion design_1_wrapper.vhd was in /gpio_bram/VHDL/, needed to copy that and replace as source file in Vivado HISTO
### Expect to add to sources...
- [ ] Controller.vhd
- [ ] Histo.vhd (HISTO 'project' exists, but needs to include HISTO.vhd provided by instructor)
warning: if 'top' does not correctly re-order itself, may need to rtclk and set top.
### Block diagram edit...
Cannot run design at 100 mhz (default frequency for project).  Edit FCLK_CLK0 inside block 'processing_system7_0'.  100 mhz would
require traversing datapath in 10 nanoseconds, our project takes more.  Cut the frequency in half to increase the time by 2x.  
- [ ] Double click on Zynq processing system block -> go to clock configuration -> select PL fabric clock -> note that FCLK_CLK0 @ 100Mhz.  CHange this to 50 MHz
Since this doesn't change any of the pins, 'design wrapper' does not need to change and be re uploaded.  But the block diagram DOES need to be re-validated.
- [ ] Genrate layout.
- [ ] Run Validation.
### ERROR WARNINGS
If you get a bunch of 'critical warnings' upon re-validation, it's likely a bug and can be ignored.
Can confirm by runing validation a second time.  If critical errors go away, no problem, continue on.
### Finalize
- [ ] Save block diagram and close block diagram editor
- [ ] Generate Bitstream (must do since added new files and changed block diagram)
- [ ] wait... synthesis should take awhile if all is correct
- [ ] logs, expect to see some warnings under Implementation Summary
- [ ] logs, confirm WNS worst negative slack timing ~ 4-5 nanoseconds
### END VIDEO -A-

## VIDEO -B-

### Warnings
Should be safe to ignore, most have been confirmed erroneous by xilinx (instructor using vivado 2017).

### Program the board
- [ ] Open hardware manager
- [ ] Autoconnect
- [ ] 'Program Device' (leave checkbox selected, use bitstream generated above)

### ELF File Creation pt 1 (SDK Version)
- [ ] Export Hardware / Include Bitstream = TRUE
- [ ] Launch SDK or Launch Vitis
Note: have to do this twice.  First round creates a hardware platform, then we need to delete it.
- [ ] From Project Explorer, select all assets and delete from disk
- [ ] Once Project Explorer is empty, close project.
- [ ] Close Vitis
- [ ] From Vivado, Re-Export Hardware
- [ ] Re-Launch Vitis
- [ ] Confirm imported with only 'design_1_wrapper_hw_platform_0', no other assets

### ELF File Creation pt 2 (SDK Version)
- [ ] Create Application Project
- [ ] Name: HISTO || os: linux || processor:ps7_coretxa9_0 || language:c || board support:create new
- [ ] Template: Linux Empty Application
- [ ] Change Compiler (IGNORE ON LATER VERSIONS OF VITIS)
- [ ] From Proj Exp -> HISTO -> rtclk and 'import' File System ../../HISTO/C_code/
- [ ] select 'common.h' and 'Histo.c' from imported ../../HISTO/C_code/ || Advanced -> Create Links in workspace -> check all true
- [ ] confirm src files added and binary ELF is created, should be HISTO.elf

### ELF File Creation pt 1 (Vitis Version)
- [ ] From Vivado, export hardware
- [ ] Make note of working directory for Vitis Workspace folder
>__Note__
>In my case, ../lab0/HISTO/Vivado/HISTO/ is where Vivado is saving files
>when prompted for a Vitis Workspace directory, use this.
- [ ] From Vivado Tools -> Launch Vitis

### ELF File Creation pt 2 (Vitis Version)
- [ ] From Vitis window, CREATE PLATFORM PROJECT. Do not try to Import or Open, just CREATE PLATFORM PROJECT
  - [ ] Select 'design_1_wrapper.xsa' from ../lab0/HISTO/Vivado/HISTO/
  - [ ] Change from Standalone to Linux
  - [ ] Ingore warning about 'Linux Domain'
  - [ ] Name the project, doesn't have to be HISTO at this point, i.e. Lab_0_10, etc
  - [ ] Finish
- [ ] From Project Explore -> BUILD PROJECT
>__Warning__
>DO PASS GO, DO NOT COLLECT $200, STOP AND BUILD THE EMPTY PROJECT!!!
>If 'build' is not run after platform creation and before application creation
>necessary options will not be available.
- [ ] Add Application Project
  - [ ] Name it HISTO
  - [ ] Select Domain 'linux on ps7coretex***'. If not available, you did not build after platform creation.
  - [ ] Select 'Linux Empty Application'
  - [ ] Finish
- [ ] Select HISTO and rtclk -> Import Sources
  - [ ] Browse to ../C_code/
  - [ ] Select HISTO.c & common.c
  - [ ] Select target folder from project tree '/HISTO/src'
  - [ ] Select Advanced -> Link to files (don't allow Vitis to copy)
  - [ ] Finish
- [ ]  Build Project (should be 2nd time now)
- [ ]  Confirm creation of tree folder 'Binaries'
- [ ]  Confirm creation of HISTO.elf

### PCAP programming of board (see instructors notes in announcements about JTAG)
- [ ] Return to Vivado, same working directory
- [ ] Enter TCL Console
- [ ] Form one command from the following three strings:
```
write_cfgmem -disablebitswap -force -format BIN -size 256 -interface SMAPx32 -checksum -loadbit "up 0x0
```
... the location of your POST SYNTHESIS 'design_1_wrapper.bit'.  Do not confuse this with PRE SYNTHESIS! 
If ../impl_1/ (or similar) is not in string, you have the wrong wrapper.
>__Note__ 
>This file location will change with each project iteration
i.e.
```
/home/sgc/Documents/ECE522/lab0/HISTO/Vivado/HISTO/HISTO.runs/impl_1/design_1_wrapper.bit"
```
... and the target file name.
```
-verbose design_1_wrapper.bit.bin
```
- [ ] Run the combined command in TCL Console
- [ ] Confirm write_cfgmem completed with 0 warnings / 0 errors
- [ ] Confirm new file 'design_1_wrapper.bit.bin' is now in your working directory
### Connect to Board / Hardware for upload
>__Warning__
> Remember board must also already have been 'programmed' via Vivado Hardware Manager by this point.
> If unsure, return to Vivado and open Hardware Manager.  If board is powered, connected, and programmed it will 
> say so in the Hardware status window.
- [ ] Install SD Card
- [ ] Connect Ethernet Cable
- [ ] Connect MicroUSB
- [ ] Connect +5VDC Power Supply
- [ ] Turn on Board
- [ ] If using VM, confirm USB passthrough from host to VM
- [ ] Confirm USB device found ($ lsusb => FTDI or digilent device on bus)
- [ ] From terminal connect to serial...
```
minicom -s
```
```
zynq> ifconfig eth0 192.168.x.x netmask 255.255.255.0
```
- [ ] close minicom with CTRL-A / X
```
$ ssh root@192.168.x.x
```
Password:root
```
zynq> cd /
znyq> ls
```
### From PC, upload ELF File, BIT.BIN, & Data Files
FROM UBUNTU TERMINAL WINDOW & LOCATION OF .ELF FILE...

ELF FIle

  If using SDK
```
$ scp ../Vivado/HISTO.skd/HISTO/Debug/HISTO.elf root@192.168.x.x:/
```

  If using Vitis
```
$ scp ../Vivado/HISTO/HISTO/Debug/HISTO.elf root@192.168.x.x:/
```

BIT.BIN File (Vitis)
```
$ scp ../Vivado/HISTO/design_1_wrapper.bit.bin root:192.168.x.x:/lib/firmware
```

DATA FILE
```
$scp ../C_code/ZYBO_C1_PN.txt root@192.168.x.x:/
```

FROM ZYNQ TERMINAL WINDOW ...
- confirm file structure of / includes HISTO.elf
- change permissions of HISTO.elf to allow chmod 777
- check data file integrity ($tail ZYBO_C1_PN.TXT)
- run 'echo' on bitstream
```
echo design_1_wrapper.bit.bin > /sys/class/fpga_manager/fpga0/firmware
```
>__Warning__
>If the above folder structure does not exist, then the SD card has not been properly configured with linux
>
### Final Execution
From the root directory, while SSH'd into the board...
```
zynq> ./HISTO.elf ZYBO_C1-PN.txt
```
- confirm result display fields of numbers on terminal screen.  Should produce a 'mean' and a 'range'

## END
- [ ] Screen capture the results of running HISTO.elf and submit via PDF to instructor.
